Welcome back.
It's time to use Python and build our real server now.
What should we do here first.
Your first intuition might say hmm I wonder if Python has a module already for that if you actually
Google python a GDP server.
You see that.
Oh look at that.
Python seems to have an HDP server.
Awesome.
And this module actually allows us to create a server.
You can see over here that all we need to do is use the HDP server.
And while we have ourselves a server you can actually read through the documentation and see how you
can build one.
You can see over here for example that it's a simple couple of lines to create a server.
However if I scroll all the way up there is a warning here HDP server is now recommended for production.
It only implements basic security checks.
You see building servers is a very very common thing.
A lot of Python developers are hired as back end engineers to build things like servers.
So when we use something like the HDB server that's built in as part of the Python standard library.
Well we're redoing all these things that frankly a lot of developers have done before.
And when you have a problem that is constantly getting solved or the problem is constantly being rewritten
and rewritten and rewritten we start to have something called libraries but also something called frameworks
and that is instead of using something that well frankly would take us a really long time to do.
And as you can see here there's still a lot of issues like security issues that we need to check and
fix.
We can use a framework like flask to build a server because so many engineers are building servers using
Python flask is a tool that uses perhaps underneath the hood something like HDP server but instead make
sure that the security the added tools and benefits are already pre-built for us.
You can think of it as a kitchen you're trying to bake a cake and instead of you having to go by the
knife go by the ball the mixer the oven go buy the ingredients all that stuff flask is like the kitchen
where you get to enter the kitchen you have all the tools necessary you have the ingredients and all
you have to do is cook.
Now when it comes to Python there's two really popular frameworks.
There's the flask framework and the Django framework right over here now.
Django is one of those frameworks that it's really really big.
It's a big big kitchen.
On the other hand flask is what we call a micro framework that is it's extremely lean.
It's a small library so that we can do things fast I'm going to teach flask over the next couple of
videos because I like the simplicity of it all.
Sometimes when you write in Django it feels like you're not even writing Python because there's so many
rules and so many tools that you can use versus with flask.
Everything is clean and small.
And it's great for our use.
So how do we get started.
Well as you know by now as with any tool that we use we should read the documentation right there in
our case.
We can just go to installation and actually read through and see what they recommend you see over here
that they recommend we use a virtual environment something that we've already talked about in previous
lesson and you'll see why this is important when we actually deploy their project to production but
it looks like we first create an environment so we make a directory project directory which hopefully
we already have.
And then we create a virtual environment.
Now one thing I haven't told you is that if you use Python 3 which if you're following this course you
already are using it comes pre-built with something called the envy.
So instead of Pip and or virtual AV that I've talked about in the previous video on virtual environments
this comes pre-built so we can actually just run this command in our terminal.
So let's give it a go
and look at that.
A new virtual environment folder was just created.
Now you see over here that the virtual environment was created while in a new folder called the V envy.
If we actually leave out the first part or the last the envy or actually let's go back one directory
and simply say Python three dash M V V and then say Web server
the web server now becomes the virtual environment because we already have the folder built.
So we don't want a new folder called virtual environment.
We can just delete that
and instead have the virtual environment right over here now.
It also gives you the option on how to do it on Windows.
So again on windows you might have to run py Desiree or if you're using Python 2 and you don't have
the the envy module in that case while you have to use virtual environment.
And then finally we have to activate the environment and all we need to do if you're on a Mac or Linux
is just grab this code or on Windows.
Grab this.
So let's just copy and paste this if I paste it in here.
Well let's talk about what is doing here we have to change this to where our folder is.
In our case we're doing the web server right.
So I'm going to say Web backslash space server because well that's the folder that we want to go into
from desktop and inside of the bin folder.
Right here we have the Activate executable.
So all we're saying is hey run this executable you don't need to worry about it what it does.
But if I run this we get a bit of an error.
Now the issue here is that I'm using something called a fish shell.
And the reason I'm showing you this is because everybody's machine is different.
So whether you are on Windows or Mac or Linux or maybe you're using a different type of terminal you
might get these errors.
Now the best way to solve these is if you go to the V envy python module and you scroll all the way
down you'll see here that you can activate using certain scripts but depends on which Shell you're using.
Most of you are using partial and windows or bash if you're using a Mac.
In my case I'm using this fish.
So all I need to do is actually add this dot fish at the end of my script you'll notice here that you
might have to add different things based on what you're using.
So if you're on Windows you're most likely going to add dot bad or dot P.S. 1 so let's try that again.
I'm going to run the same thing but this time say dot fish.
There you go.
It's now working and I'm in the web server which is this folder in the virtual environment.
So now I can install packages here and just be in my own little world.
Now if for some reason activating doesn't work for you you can actually still keep going with the lectures.
It won't really affect you.
This is just one of those things that it's a little tricky.
You might not get it straight away but the best thing to do is to always read the documentation and
follow the instructions.
All right.
That took an unnecessarily long time.
So let's finish off by installing flask.
If we go back to our guide we can finally install flask by doing pip install flask.
Now again we want to make sure that our Pip if we do version is for Python three point seven but for
some of you you might have to use Pip three
so based on your needs.
Make sure you use the appropriate Pip installer let's clear this up and just copy and paste and install
flask
awesome.
We've just installed flask so we can start using it in our project.
But that was a whole lot of setup and a lot of downloading.
So let's take a break and I'll see you in the next video by.